feat(badge): initial design guidance (#12)
vmware-clarity/clarity-guidance: 1002-badge-design-guidance.md

---
category: component design guidance
state: draft
created: 2024-10-15
updated: 2024-10-21
---

# Badge Design Guidance

[Badge](https://clarity.design/documentation/badge) component is a dynamic status modifier to other components that indicate the number of instances of that component.

## Guidance

> - **Must** use badge to highlight the count, while a [label](https://clarity.design/documentation/label) can be used to display metadata, which is usually text content. A label can contain a badge.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Design teams **must** use a badge to highlight the count of items, while a [label](https://clarity.design/documentation/label) should be used for metadata, typically as text content. A label can also contain a badge for added context. This approach enhances visual clarity, separates contexts, ensures relevance, and improves accessibility for users.
```

> - **Must** pair badge with a [label](https://clarity.design/documentation/label) or text that conveys the information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Design teams **must** pair a badge with a [label](https://clarity.design/documentation/label) or text that conveys the relevant information. This ensures users understand the context of the badge, enhancing clarity and usability.
```

> - **Must** use 99+ instead of the number, if number is over 99.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Design teams **must** use "99+" instead of displaying the actual number when the count exceeds 99. This keeps the interface clean and avoids overwhelming users with large numbers.
```

## Accessibility Guidelines

> - **Should** use a variety of colours for different badges. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Design teams should use a variety of colors for different badges to provide clear visual distinctions, enhancing usability and helping users quickly identify different statuses or categories.
```
